[Nagisa]: Tomoya.
It's morning, wake up!
Breakfast is ready, when you
are; Don't let it get cold.
Oh, uh, thank you...
[Tomoya]:
Sorry to make you do this.
It's fine. I don't mind at all.
But what about you?; You seemed
pretty worn out last night.
Yeah, my muscles are still
aching like crazy.
I feel a little better
than before, though.
@Try not to push yourself
tooúhard out there, okay?
Okay...
Morning everyone;
How's it going?
Hey.
Good morning. Go ahead
and get changed.
Yes sir!,
You're not holding the
spanner the right way.
I showed you how to do it
yesterday, remember?
Right! Sorry!
Also, you're using
too much thread lock!
Fasten the screws
in diagonal order;
Don't tell me
you forgot already!
Right! Sorry!
Stay focused up there.
Little mistakes can cause
big accidents.
Yes sir!
Hey, I'm home from work.
Welcome back!
I'm cooking some pork for dinner
to help give you
more stamina tomorrow!
Wow, thanks. That sounds great!
I'll be finished soon, so get
some rest in the meantime.
Oh... the bath is ready, too.
[sniffling and clearing throat]
Thanks.
[Man on TV]ÚI told
you, that's mine!
[Woman on TV]: Awwww...
[Man on TV]: If you want
one, go buy one yourself.
[Nagisa]: Tomoya,
are you tired again?,
Huh? Not really.
I'm much better today.
Hmm.
[Tomoya]: Nagisa is the one
thing holding me together right
now.
She sees me off in the morning,
worries about me while I'm at
work, and makes sure I'm okay
when I make it home.
As long as I have her, I don't
think any job could get me down.
You're getting better,
but why do you always do things
the hard way? I don't get it.
Do what? What do you mean?
It's easier to use both
of your hands, isn't it?
Why do you favor
your left hand so much?
@Uh... I guess it's kinda weird,
but it's easier for me.
Hm. That's fine.
It's not like you're doing
anything wrong, I suppose.
I know he doesn't look like
much, but I like him.
@[Nagisa]ÚTomoya? Hey, Tomoya?
Huh? Oh, sorry, what is it?
@I keep saying your name,
@but you just stare
offúlike you can't hear me.
I know, I know. I was
just thinking about work.
I-I'm sorry...
Why are you apologizing?,
@You've been havingúsuch
a hard time at work...
@but when you come home all I
doúis go on and on about myself.
@I'm sorry.
No, you got it all wrong!
I'm always happy
to hear about your day!
You're not being rude!
It's a nice change of pace!
[Nagisa]: You haven't told
Yoshino that your right shoulder
is bad?
He probably should know...
I can't do that.
If he finds out, then he
might not let me work anymore.
I didn't think of it that way...
And besides, even if
Yoshino didn't mind,
that still doesn't mean
my boss will approve.
I'm lucky I found a job
that pays so well
right out of high school.
I'd hate to be fired
before my first paycheck.
All right, but don't let
yourself get hurt
over something like that.
Don't worry; I'll try
to be careful.
All right then,
see you tomorrow.
Yeah. Good night.
Is something wrong?
Tomoya, aren't you lonely
at your new place?
Huh?
It's just; You'll be
all alone after I leave.
If it were me, I think
I might be kind of sad.
[Nagisa]: Maybe it's
not a big deal to you,
but it makes me want to cry
just thinking about it.
@Heh. Now that's silly. No
reasonúto cry over something
like that.
I guess so... But-
Once you leave, I go straight
to sleep, so it's not a problem.
Anyway, don't sweat the
small stuff, I'll be fine.
All right, good night.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Wait, what are we doing?
We need to make a
construction photo ledger
for process management.
Here, hold this.
@Thanks Yoshino.úKeep
up the good work.
@Is that...?
Mr. Kinoshita!,
Now that's a surprise; Are
you two friends or something?
Well, it was quite a while back,
but I used to work for the same
company as Tomoya's father.
I would see Tomoya when I
visited their house after work.
[Kinoshita]: I'm surprised!
You sure have gotten big!
I'm pretty surprised myself,
I didn't think I'd run into you
in a place like this,
Mr. Kinoshita.
The last company I worked for
went under a while back,
so I applied here.
So how's your father these days?
Ah... well... I'm living
on my on these days,
so I don't see him very often.
[Yoshino]: Work takes
us all over the place,
so these sort of things
are bound to happen
every once in a while.
Makes you realize how small
the world really is..
I dunno; It doesn't
seem small to me;
In fact, it feels like
my world just got bigger.
Really interested
in those photos, huh?
Just made me realize
something, that's all.
Before I knew it, all these
big buildings had popped up
all over the place.
[Yoshino]:
This is only the beginning.
Just wait, once they finish all
the roads they're working on,
new companies and new shops will
start showing up everywhere.
They're about to build a
big hospital out here, too.
It seems hard to believe.
[Tomoya]: In a way, I kinda
don't want it to change so
fast...
@Hey, if you're free next
Sunday, údo you wanna go out
somewhere?
Oh, sorry, I can't.
I have a mock entrance
exam that afternoon.
A mock exam?; But you're not
going to college, are you?
No, probably not, but I
still want to take the exam
with everyone else in my class.
That's why I was
apologizing to you.
I see.
[Tomoya]: You and I seem to be
on different schedules these
days.
[Nagisa (sadly)]: Mm-hmm...
Ah... it's nothing to feel bad
about. Good luck on the test.
Okay!
[Tomoya]: Now remind me again...
why am I hanging out
with you on my time off?
Cause I happen to have
some time off, too;
So don't be such a little turd.
Now, let's have a little fun
for grownups. What d'ya say?
"Fun for grownups"?
This is my favorite toy store;
I'm a regular here.
A regular, huh?
Hey, what's up?
You impudent whelp!
@I hate to say so,
úbut I think your new friend
@is a littleúslow in the head.
Nah, he's a rookie, that's all.
Cut the guy some slack.
A rookie!? You mean
there are pros!?
Anyway, let's go ahead and
call this a draw for today.
In that case, that makes
123 wins, 171 losses,
and 32 draws for me.
This is your idea of
fun for grownups, huh?
Nah, we're just getting started.
So... my special order
come in, or what?
Heh. Come on,
who do you think I am?
[Akio]: Go ahead, open it up.
What the heck is this?
Why, it's Lizard, the Bengal
Monitor Lizard, of course.
Lizard the lizard, huh?
I'm gonna take this
critter home to Sanae...
and then stick it
down her shirt!
Heh... Why, just thinking about
it sets my heart aflutter!
That's some sense of romance...
Don't you feel sorry for Sanae?
Why would you do that?
Don't be so stuck up.
If you don't want your marriage
to get stale, you gotta give
your lady something
to get excited about
every now and then.
Might try it yourself, someday.
You give the worst
advice in the world.
Hi Tomoya. Haven't
seen you in ages, huh?
@Uh, y-yeah.
By the way, Sanae,
what are you afraid of
most in the whole wide world?
@That'd be the Bengal Monitor
Lizard, of course!
[Tomoya]: So specific!,
That's what I thought!
Ahhhh! Look!; There's one
right over there!
What?! H-here in the shop?!
Ah! It went over there!
What?!
Please forgive me, Sanae!
Ahh! Oh no! Look out! Sanae,
it just went down your shirt!
[Sanae panicking]
Someone get it out!
@Ah, damn, looks like I
reallyúoutdid myself this time!
Do something about it!
Sanae! Tomoya did it!
Ahhh! No fair!
Oh my. They sure are lively
today, aren't they?
Mrs. Isogai, sorry
for making so much noise!
@No, it's fine! Those twoúare
so much fun to watch!
@Everyone in the
neighborhoodúcan't wait to see
@what the Furukawas do next.
Huh... Is that so?
@[Sanae]ÚSomeone
get@it out! Help!
@[Akio]ÚSanae, wait!
I guess I'm going after them.
Oh, of course. Don't worry.
I'll watch over the shop
until you get back.
Ah, thank you.,
[Nagisa]:
Wow, that was a real surprise!
I see my parents running all
the time when I get home,
but I've never seen you
running with them!
Ah man, I bet Sanae
hates me now.
Heh, I think you got it
backwards, Tomoya.
After today, I bet you
two will get along
even better than you did before!
I'm not so sure. I put a Bengal
Monitor Lizard down her shirt.
Like I told you, my mom and dad
run around like that
all the time, but I bet this
is the first time someone else
has run around with them;
So if you ask me, that
means you're like family now.
@Wow, you reallyúthink so?
[Nagisa]: Oh... um...
by the way, Tomoya...
do you remember what happens
on the next NEXT Sunday?
It's a special event...
The next NEXT?
Well, your birthday's in
December, so it's not that...
It's the Founder's Festival
at our school.
I know the drama club has
been disbanded and all...
but that doesn't mean I can't
have fun seeing what all
the other students put together.
So, uh... I thought...
Sounds good.
Let's make it a date.
Okay!
Phew. Today was pretty
rough, huh?
Yeah, you're telling me, buddy;
I feel like we really earned
our paycheck on that one.
Good work out there today.
Organizing some papers, huh?
@Yeah, it's too much ofúa
pain to do it by myself.
@But he's a
realúnatural at this.
[Yoshino]:
Hmm... I see. Pretty impressive.
It's no big deal. I'm just
organizing them by date.
Yeah, looks annoying. I couldn't
take five minutes of that.
Guess I could help you with
this pile, if you like.
Ah, no; Thanks anyway,
but I already finished those.
Don't let him do it, kid.
If he touches those papers,
you'll never get
them in order again.
Who do you think
you're talking about?
I'll have you know
I was an accountant
before my company downsized!
@If you're looking
forúextra work that bad,
@you can doúmy job for me.
Don't worry, I'm
almost done here.
If you guys want to go
home, you can go ahead.
@Good. In that case,
úsee you later.
Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.
@See you.
So long. I'll see
you tomorrow, boss.
@All right. Catch you later.,
Y'know, I really am glad
you signed on with us.
We're about to get
a really big contract
and we've been short on
workers for a long time.
Thank you, but I still don't
know how to do anything...
Come on, don't be so modest.
You just started and I hear you
can do most of the work already.
[Boss]: I'll warn you, you may
have to work on the weekends
a bit more now, but
you're doing a great job!
[Nagisa (singing)]: Founder's...
Founder's... Founder's Festival.
I can't wait til next week.
@Nagisa...
Yes? Dinner's almost done...
Actually, this isn't about
dinner, it's about work.
If things get busy,
I might not be able
to make the Founder's
Festival after all.
I'm sorry. I hate to say that
when we don't spend enough
time together as it is.
Don't worry about it so much.
I think it's good that
you're busy with work;
It's nothing to be sorry about.
Nagisa...
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't
a little disappointed,
but I'm glad you're
working so hard
and your job is going so well.
I'm really sorry...
Get me the diagonal cutter.
No problem.
Okay.
Next, I need 210 millimeters
of triple-core VVF cable.
Strip both ends.
How much should I strip?
Should be 2 centimeters
if it's insulated, right?
[Yoshino]: Yeah, but you can do
either if you strip four
centimeters.
Remember that.
Oh, I see. Thanks;
That helps a lot.
Now, get some wrapping 38 ready.
Protective tubing, huh?
You need standard
or flame-retardant?
Better to use flame-retardant.
It'd be bad if this burned.
You can finish up the rest.
I'm gonna take a look
over there, all right?
@No problem.
Be careful and don't rush.
I'll come back when I'm done.
Okay.
[Tomoya]: Uh, Yeah.
I hate to ask, but if possible,
I'd like to have the
day off tomorrow.
That's fine.
It's perfect actually.
It's a holiday, so you
wouldn't be working anyway.
I didn't know!,
By the way, how's your
right shoulder doing?
Huh?
Can't raise your
right arm, can you?
I could tell by watching you.
You must've known
for a while now.
Why didn't you say
something to me sooner?
Even if I did, it wouldn't
have done any good.
After all, you've been doing
your job just fine.
You've been working hard to
overcome your handicap
out there...
you should be proud.
You know... work's gonna
getúharder and harder from now
on.
If you can't handle it, you
don't have to push yourself.
I can always pick up the slack.
You sure that's
all right? I mean,
I don't want to end up
being a burden to you...
We get help for the
things we can't do.
That's the whole point
in having a company.
There'll be times when
I can't do something
and I'll need your help.
Nothing wrong with that.
So in short, If you work
tooúhard, you might have an
accident
and make that
girlfriend of yours sad.
We wouldn't want that to happen.
[sobbing lightly]
[Tomoya]: Thank you so much.
[Boss]: Aww, no! Everybody
went home already! No good!
Is something wrong?
Oh, I made a stupid mistake
and one of our jobs
got left out of the schedule.
It's this one here. Could you
do something like this?
Yeah, it should be all right.
It's the same thing I've
been doing with Yoshino.
That's great! Sorry, I hate
to ask but you wouldn't mind
taking care of it for
me, would you?
Like right now, by myself?
Yeah... I have some other
work I gotta get done, too.
I'll drop you off at the
site then come back
to pick you up when
you're done, okay?
Sure.
[sighing]
Yoshino...
I just got a phone call
from the boss.
I tried to get over here
as fast as I could.
Were you able to handle
things on your own?
Yeah, I think so.
[Yoshino]:
Did you check the junctions?
Yeah. I checked the whole
circuit after I was finished.
Did you remember to
remove the coating?
Yes. I double checked
the measurement, too.
All right, good work.
Let's head back. It's late.
Yes, sir!
[Nagisa]: I'm going to
festival ahead of you, okay?
All right, that sounds
good to me;
I'll meet you at the
front gate of the school.
See ya!
[phone ringing] Hm?
Hello?
[Boss]: Uh, hey... Okazaki,
do you know what happened
at the site yesterday?
Huh?
[Boss]: I got a call from
Yoshino just a little while ago.
He said that he noticed a
mistake and that he's going
to fix it ASAP. I tried
to find out what was wrong,
but I couldn't get
anything out of him.
Anyway, I thought that
you might know something,
since you were there.
@Yoshino!
Okazaki, what are
you doing here?!
What do you mean?! [panting]
I'm sorry!
If I'd done my job right, you-
[Yoshino]: It's not your fault.
It is!
It slipped by me too;
I didn't think about it
until you went home.
By then it was late,
so I decided to
fix it up today instead.
I admit you were careless,
but I should've noticed it
before you left.
You have plans with Nagisa,
don't you? Hurry up and go.
Let me take responsibility!
Forget it!
Yoshino, please!,
I need some low insulation
tubing. Six meters of type 20.
Huh?
Come on, get moving!
Right!
Oh, Tomoya...
Nagisa...
So you were at work,
huh? I thought so.
Something sudden
must've come up.
Wow, Tomoya, you sure
are sweating an awful lot!
I'm sorry...,
No reason to be upset;
You haven't done anything
to apologize for.
Here, take one; I bought
us both some roasted corn.
We can eat it on the way home.
You're coming, right?
Uh, right...
Good morning.
I heard that you had a tough
time yesterday, Mister Okazaki.
Yeah...
[Johnny]: I heard about
what happened from Yoshino.
Never thought I'd meet a guy
who'd skip out on a date
to come to work!
@Shoulda told me, man; I
wouldaútaken care of that date
for ya!
Sorry it worked out that way,
but if it's any consolation,
I'll pay you overtime
for your work.
I-I appreciate it,
but it was my mistake;
I thought you'd be upset...
[Yoshino]:
Everyone makes mistakes.
So, the important thing
is how you make up for them.
You gave it your best
out there and in the end,
you didn't cause
the client any problems.
From now on... just don't make
the same mistake again
and you should be fine.
And if you still feel guilty...
then when you're showing
another rookie the ropes...
if he makes a mistake,
you cover for him!
Just remember, that's your job!
And also...
Your LOVE!
[sighing]
Thank you, Yoshino!
I'll never forget that!
I'm not sure about
the love part,
but I can agree with
the other stuff.
All right, ladies, enough chit
chat. Let's get to work now!
@Okay. Yes, sir.
[Boss]: Oh, Okazaki,
I finally had this made for you.
Huh?
Okazaki, let's move!
Ah, right!
[Nagisa]: You know,
I feel like your kindness
has really been shining
through lately.
[Tomoya]: Y'know, I used to
think being nice to people was a
hassle.
Heh, kinda funny, considering
how I was always butting
into other people's problems.
[Nagisa]: I support you either
way... so whichever choice you
think
is best, is best for me.
[Yoshino]: Don't ever lose sight
of what's important to you.